A song back for another video.
Surprise surprise this one I'm going to mark is optional because this is going to go into something
we haven't talked about which is how things are stored in memory in Python.
So if you're intimidated already by this section I don't want to lose you here so come back to this
later.
It's kind of skipping ahead a little bit.
So we talked about equals we're ready to test for equality.
But there's another way to test for equality that you'll see which is it is I guess.
And so it's I know it's kind of confusing.
What's the difference between is and equals.
If they both are testing for equality and I have a really dumb quote about depends on what the meaning
of the word is is I don't know.
I think you know I put that there.
But essentially I mean it does depend on the meaning of is in this case and there is a different meaning
than double equals.
But first but see how they're similar.
So we do something like this in python A equals one.
Then we say OK that variable is one there's a equal one and that's true.
Double equals equality is true.
Same thing for a is one that also returns true.
So OK how are they different.
Well here's an example here's something we again we haven't really talked about but you've seen lists
very very briefly at least you've seen them if you've been watching on the videos that have been skipping
around which is totally fine if you do that but this is a list and they look the same to us as humans.
Right that data inside is the same.
We'll get to them in just a couple of sections.
So when we used double equals it returns true because the value of the lists are the same.
But when we do a is b it returns false.
And the difference is that double equals is checking the values to see if they're the same.
A is B is checking to see if they're stored in the same place in memory.
So with lists they could look the same but they're different instances are different objects and we
haven't really talked about objects.
So this is sort of an awkward video for me to place in the course but I want to put it here just because
we're already talking about double equals.
But I also will reference it once we talk more about lists and objects.
But the key thing is comparing the values which is a lot of the time what you actually want to do for
lists and things.
So if they look the same held the same data we used double equals.
But if you want to see if it's exactly the same place and memory you use is.
So here's another example.
If we then take this list B and I make a new variable called C and I say C is equal to B.
There are now pointing to the same list in memory.
So B is c it's true.
It sounds like kind of like a tongue twister.
I guess I'd be too easy for a tongue twister but it sounds like jibberish.
But the key thing again double equals checks values.
This is Czech's memory.
So here's you know is is only true if the if the variables reference the same item in memory.
So if you care I will quickly demonstrate that.
So I'll make a variable called X and I will set that to 13 and then I'll make another variable called
Y set that 2:13.
So if we do X equals equals Y returns true because they're pointing to the same place in memory and
if they do X is Y.
And that also returns true because every time he referenced the number 13 it's not a new object that
is created in memory.
And again we haven't talked about object so bear with me here.
But what I really want to talk about is if we do something like this let's sort of x and y.
Let's do a and b so a is a list just containing the numbers 1 and 2 and B is another list containing
1 and 2 which we also haven't talked about list.
So bear with me again.
If we do a equals equals B that's true it contains the same values.
They look the same.
Now the order does matter.
We haven't talked about that but really let's just say they look the same.
So they are the same value.
But if I do a is b it's not true because this is a separate object in memory.
Every time these brackets are here a new list is created in memory and they're pointing to the error
is pointing to this one.
B is pointing to this one.
They look the same.
They're kind of they're holding the same data but they're unique in our computers memory.
So a is not the same as B but if I make a variable called clone and I set that equal to a clone.
Now holds it's pointing to the same part and memory as a.
So there's kind of two arrows pointing to this you've got a pointing to that and clone.
So if I do a is clone we get true.
So most of the time we'll be using double equals to check for equal values but it will come up later
where we care that we're checking for equality of objects like the exact same object in memory rather
than just the values.
OK so that's the difference between is and equals.